---
layout: post
author: zheinsohn
title: Zoe's Meetup Writeup
---

I joined the Michigan Python monthly meetup. The topic for the meeting was Mastering Loops, with Debora Shelby giving a talk on the uses and differences between while loops and for loops. Initially when I joined the meeting, I was nervous because I felt a little out of place, especially because it was supposed to be for Michigan coders. However, it was a very casual meeting and basic terms were explained without prompting. Any future talks that were promoted were described by topic and skill level which I appreciated, especially as a newcomer.

While I am familiar with loops in general, it was great to get really straightforward explanations and demonstrations to reinforce the principles. The way Debora started out by describing the difference between loops:


While loops: when you are not sure how many times you want to exceute the loop
For loops: when you know exactly how many times you want to repeat the loop

I thought that was very succinct. She showed us uses for loops like games and other applications that helped me think about the different ways basic pieces of Python code can be used.  Others in the group discussed other potential applications, some of which were a little beyond me but were interesting nonetheless.

It was a little different from my expectations. It was definitely less serious and less advanced that I was afraid of. The terminology was pretty basic, and it was obvious that some people in the group were very knowledgable and oftne jumped in to elaborate and share info, but it never felt off-putting or condescending. People were comfotable with asking for clarification and relating their own experiences. After the talk, attendees discussed future projects, talked about their personal expertise, and planned collaborations. It was really fun to see a group of people so excited about participating in code talks and presentations.

I think these types of events in the future will be very helpful, especially if I can find ones about specific topics that I'd like to know more about or that I struggle with.
I'm definitely going to continue to pursue learning Python and potentially MySQL, probably in a more self-taught and self-paced manner, and groups like this will probably be so invaluable. I was really anxious about attending one, and even though I didn't contribute much to the conversation, I feel more comfortable and feel less stressed about joining and contributing in the future.
