---
layout: post
author: choim7
title: "Moonjeog's final project reflection"
---

#Please check the last 2nd paragrph of the reflection before checking the code
#because there might be 2 problems when running on trinket(but can successfully run on my end on IDLE)
#Embedded code:
<iframe src="https://trinket.io/embed/python/e73b94ea2e" width="100%" height="600" frameborder="0" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

final project reflection

#original thoughts on this project
The earliest thought I had is to design a Mario like game. But since I didn't manage my time well in preparing the finals for 4 of my classes this semester, 
I decided to choose to design a ping pong game instead. 

#The process of coding and confusions I had
When I started to code, I found designing this ping pong game is not as easy as I thought. I was even failling in uploading the .jpg/.jpeg/.png images as the 
background of my game. I felt very frustrated and spent a lot of time on trying to change suffix and to see if it will succeed. After all the failures on my tries,
I googled for some help. Then I noticed I could import a cv2 module, even though I've never heard about it before. I also noticed that python is more likely accept 
.png format. So I used cv2.imread method to successfully make my IDLE take the batman2.png as the background of my design. After I successfully uploaded this image 
as my backgroud, I also wanted to upload another png image as the image for the ping pong ball in my game. So by default, the ping pong ball is just a circle, so I 
was thinking because my game theme is batman, a joker image attached to my ping pong ball would be cool. But things didn't go as I imagined. I failed in uploading t
he joker image and don't know why. I also put a lot time in just uploading it, and finally I gave up. I decided to use a batman background and a normal ping pong 
ball and two normal ping pong brackets. 

I then started to setup the size of my game window and set up diverse dimensions and characteristcs of my turtles. In the process of my design, I first decided to
use 1 source I found online for my ping pong game, and that source is the calculation of how the ball will move when it collide with the 2 brackets. I actually 
tried to re-calculate the equations after I change my background size for a few times, but not only should I take care of these equations, there were more 
unexpected other issues happened in my code, so I just leave that part as it used to be. One of the problems I've been stuck on is when I tried to set different 
speed values for the turtle named ball. So I was intending to first write a sentence:"1. slowMode, 2. normalMode, 3.Fast" to indicate the difficulty level of my 
game by changing the speed of the ball. And I tried to use screen.onkey(changeVelocity,'1'), screen.onkey(changeVelocity,'2'), etc and change the parameters of 
the method changeVelocity to set different values for the ball. But later I noteiced, when useing screen.onkey, I can not include any parameters in the first 
part seperated by the comma(changeVelocity, '1'). So I was confused how to make the ball has different velocity when users choose different difficulty levels. 
I then started to think if I can use 3 different methods to set the ball with different velocities. But I also had a problem with it, which is if I include the 
initiation of the ball in the method, it will become a local turtle. And when I try to run the main while loop, the ball is not considered and bugs will showup. 
I was not able to solve this problem even at the end. I hope I can use more time to find a good solution for it. And as long as I talk about the solution, 
I want to share 1 method that helped me get more easily understand the code or increase my abilities in coding. That is to look other people's code. Just to 
try to understand their logics in managing the code, but not just copy and paste. In this final presentation, I am really excited to see all the amazing, 
outstanding, and talent thoughts my peers have, and I felt like I had a long long way to go to catch up with them. I felt a little bit frustrated, but I felt 
more excited and felt happy that I had chances in seeing how other people think and what good points I can learn from them. I used to practice some java problems 
and there were also several file processing problems I've practiced, but when I see my peers' solutions today at the presentation, I realized I've done so little 
practice and I have to hurry up to catch up with them. 

When I was doing my project, there was another thing I've noticed. So I basically started my project by importing pygame and used some pygame method to construct 
my design. I then tried to also import turtle to combine them together, however, after I took some time in constructing my design with these 2, I found from the 
online blogs that these 2 won't work well if they are put together. So this experience has taught me I should really understand what pygame and turtle do and 
what's the basic concept of them before I start my project, otherwise, I will waste so much time in doing a wrong thing. Another thing I learned from my final 
project is that I should never give up polishing my codes, even though there were a lot of times I felt headache because I don't believe I can solve the problems.
But what I found is, if I don't give up, and if I keep search solutions online, and if I keep trying to understand what others' code is talking about, 
I will finally solve the problems in my code little by little. And after my code is able to run successfully, I would feel more confident and would have more 
courages to enhance my code. And I would consider such process a benefitial process for me to grow in the path of a pythoner. 

I actually want to suggest 2 things as well. So there are still 2 problems I can't solve in my code. So I can run my code successfully in IDLE on my end, but if
I upload it to trinket, the first problem is trinket says there is no cv2 module. So I just make my cv2 part as comments because I could upload my image to 
trinket manually and it runs well. But sequently, I met a nother problem. So when I ran my code in trinket in python(not python3), my dashboard can be 
successfully shown, but when I ran the game, it says 'Turtle' object has no attribute 'shapesize' on line xx. I could not figure it out until the end. So here 
I want to suggest another issue when I was doing my project or coding. That is I spent a lot of time in searching online to find a solution to a problem that 
I've never seen before. I don't know if it's because I still don't have an efficient way of learning, or it's just a common issue that my peers will also 
encounter. I hope I can enhance my abilites of finding solutions online to solve problems. 

All in all, these are my thoughts as I was doing my final project. What I can conclude is I still have a very long way to go in the path of being a good 
pythoner after I saw my deficiencies in my project compared to my peers'. But at the same time, I'm glad I have this chance in seeing other people's talent 
works. And finally, I really appreciate the work Pro.Hauser and Misha have done in this semester. I really like the harmonious environment in the class and 
the nice attitudes you have when being asked questions. That really makes me feel more confident in coming up with questions！ Thank you and all my other 
peers for spending a memorable semester together！ I hope I can enhance my python/coding skills quickly so that I can (or maybe) have a chance in becoming a 
smart/great person as you(Pro.Hauser and Misha)!! :)
